I hope you can hear me
well excellent so um the the timer has
reached zero I was curious what would
happen uh at this point um and I want to
um welcome you on behalf of uh everyone
who made this possible and we'll get to
that in a second to the first ever uh
distributes meeting here in dorf in this
in this uh nice venue and um before we
get into into the details I just want to
take the time to uh thank uh a bunch of
of of people and and and entities in
general first of all uh HRI H University
uh which made it possible that we can uh
run this meeting in the way uh that that
we are running it so you just show up
and we have a meeting and there's
there's not much else to do uh and we're
very grateful for that uh also um the
research center in ulich uh for taking
the edge of um some of the real world
annoyances that you still have to take
care of if you if you have a a venue
already delivered on the silver plate to
you and then also uh Dartmouth College
and the center for open Neuroscience uh
in in the exact um uh same role in
organizing and of course uh most Thanks
goes to you for for actually showing up
and making uh the meeting a reality
Beyond uh somebody having the idea that
we should have a meeting so so thank you
for
that uh oh I should mention before um
before we go on uh that we are uh
streaming this event um so everything um
ideally is communicated uh out to the uh
to the public we have two cameras in the
back one camera is showing the speaker
and the other camera is is showing the
stage so if you are um you know
not interested in being broadcasted to
widely just be mindful of where the
cameras are and where they're pointing
and then uh you can you can um uh act
accordingly we also have uh two Studio
mics in the front uh that we can use uh
for the interactions and I want to uh
ask you if you if you ask a question
make a comment um that you please wait
for the mic so that the people who are
um listening to the stream can also um
understand
you uh right so on with the thanks the
um the meeting was uh uh in in in every
sense of the word collaboratively
organized so a lot of people uh that you
can see here on on the screen have
have contributed to the fact that we
actually meet at this at this point and
um you can you can kind of think as the
the the origin of the idea to be the two
projects that you see at the bottom uh
ganex and and and datet and the people
who are involved in these projects are
also are also here but by no means um
this is the G Annex and and data meeting
and we named the distributes for for for
a purpose um because it's it's what we
want to be talking about is is basically
distributed data right so we're not you
know narrowly focused on on a specific
implementation of one solution but we're
interested in an exchange uh on the
topic with people uh that share you know
some aspects of of that General mindset
so thank
you um why did we want to have that
meeting and um I put these uh three
points on that slide they're actually
not um um original because they are
taken from the uh the the the homepage
of the Debian conference uh website and
I I found them nicely fitting because
the the attitude and the the intentions
are are very similar we want to we
wanted to have a face to-face meeting
and and and have that face-to-face
meeting as a as a space to um to to
introduce ideas and just you know
brainstorm and and and ultimately also
you know sit down and and kick things
off um together and at the same time we
also didn't want to have it constrained
um to that room here in dorf uh to the
people that could actually manage it and
that's why we're also streaming it uh to
the to the outside um world in here and
in in in many ways this meeting is is a
continuation of an effort that JB uh who
is also here uh um um pursued continues
to pursue in in in Montreal and here's a
a picture from from a meeting um many
many years ago and and if we if we can
establish that same kind of of of you
know joyful you know brainstorm like
atmosphere then then we've we've
accomplished everything um we wanted
to
um we have a a series of um of of Matrix
chat rooms that I think most of you will
know we have a bit of a logistic section
uh soon and in the leadup to the meeting
uh we had a little bit of an
exchange on things like when we started
using git and and git Annex and and uh
and I think what came out of this uh
this little exchange is uh that that
many people here in that room are using
the same Tools in in similar ways with
similar Ambitions for a long long time
so I think the the the audience is is
the best possible that we could hope for
uh already for the exchange that uh that
we had in mind and of course uh
everyone has slightly different uh you
know ideas and and motivations for for
for showing up here and I think we can
I'm actually completely unaware of the
time so we have a lot of time um that uh
to to so we could just kick it off with
a little bit of an exchange of of what
brings us here um initially and and I
you know I would like to ask Yar and and
Joey to join me on the stage and we can
also pass around the um the the audience
mics uh for anyone who wants to share
what what what brings them
here right so everybody filled out in
the forums like why you want to come to
distribute but that was personal kind of
what is it like therapist session right
we cannot disclose it but that's why we
are here now maybe to talk about it
together right why why we've got here
together and what was your motivation
our motivation to a degree or my own
motivation was that datal was originally
a project which we worked together as
our primary goal now we use datal as a
tool and we have many projects kind of
building on top of it and we kind of
even connection like what are we doing
right so what are we doing in our
day-to-day life and we wanted oh let's
meet together and talk about our project
so we kind of align our interests and
that's why we are here talking about our
project some of ours but also listening
to you what you want to see in the land
of distributed data versioning right or
distributed data management and what
were your use cases so um and maybe I'll
pass pass on to Joy while you could just
take a moment and think maybe how you
could phrase what are your interests and
maybe how you maybe you want others to
discover what you're doing so you
establish new connections and new like
networking right in in this
audience yeah for me um you know I I
started building get anex about 12 years
ago for trivial personal reasons um so
it's really interesting to have so many
people who are using data lad or
interested in data lad and also you know
General distributed data um systems and
um so for me I'm really this is a great
opportunity to meet lots of people who
are either using ganx maybe via data lad
and they don't use it directly and also
people who it just doesn't actually work
out for because that's really you know
if you're in this room and it's not
working for you then that's that's a
gold mine as far as I'm concern
concerned because it gives me ideas
which is the most important thing that I
get from my users and Genex wouldn't be
where it was without um my users who
have given me so many ideas and data lad
who was giving me so many ideas and
supported me as well so yeah um that's
my motivation and I would love to talk
with as many of you as possible and I
have sports shoes I could run through
the audience so uh just raise your hand
if you oh and there is also stuff on to
cover that side anybody wants to say
anything or I'll I'll I'll put my finger
into the audience you don't want that
okay Phillip okay you take that side
I'll take this
side hi I'm Philip Durban from dataverse
and I'll be giving a talk tomorrow but
uh yeah to give a little preview um I
feel like this conference uh completes
me perhaps because I'm I'm coming uh
from a perspective of a lot of metadata
and um making data discover discoverable
uh the fair data principles and uh yet
we get in our community a lot of
discussion about uh you know distributed
data how can we mirror the data how can
we make it like a CDN or more available
so I'm just hoping to learn a lot U get
some fresh perspectives uh from the
conference so thank
you anybody else or you'll have to hear
me or listen to me for all the time
that's also not
Advantage yeah hi uh Wang trailer from
sinberg Institute in Frankfurt uh I'm an
ecologist I work with large data sets on
my um colleagues also and over the years
I have uh pressured my peers to work
with Git that was already a great step
um I have
yay um I personally have managed my
files with get anex for many years and
um still not at the stage where I can
really use get anex or data lad for my
research because there is a big
threshold for people um coming from
ecology who don't have the computer
science background or or even Linux
background so um I'm curious uh to
connect with um uh people and developers
to see um where uh there are uh points
where how I can bring um this into my uh
working groups and um increase a
reproducibility and reliability of our
research very
[Applause]
good
um Jo baruchi University of
cologne um I probably want to follow up
on what this person just said about
another kind another typology of users I
am in computer science but I'm also um
have been for many years part of the
team leading the so-called data center
for the Humanities at the University of
cologne and the kind of people that to
the data center for the Humanities are
people that have a certain threshold
when it comes to technical
complexity and ganex of which I'm a
personal user for 10 years now and
similar products are definitely not
cutting it for them also because in
comparison what many people are doing
like sharing data in a Fair Way many
people in the humanities must not or
have a mandate not to share their data
for many years so we're talking about
non-fair kind of sharing or partially
fair so these are kind of um gray
situations that current tools do not
completely address so I'm all ears and
I'm very happy to be your gold mine of
[Music]
problems thank
you yeah hello my name is Johannes
Johannes serman at the from the
University of kuk um I am anchored there
in the engineering and Material Science
community and I been a data part-time
data Steward since uh two or three years
for clust of exence there and we have
been trying to um push another uh
distributed data management solution
named the detol um since a couple of
years over there so I'm detol outside
and so is the ASN here who is working
with me but we were very curious to uh
learn from each other other or
understand how other such Solutions are
working and want to avoid that solution
that we have been using and pushing to
develop towards another Island solution
and that's uh why we are
here
[Applause]
thank hi everyone I'm abishek tupta I'm
from Oxford I'm a research software
engineer and I've been using gonx for 10
years thanks Joey like I've been one of
of the early users uh I've never really
got around to data lad so I want to
learn more about data lad and this
distribut is perfect because I'm like
helping collaborating with other people
to build a clinical data platform uh for
researchers to easily access clinical
data and I already see there are some
talks on the schedule about that and how
specifically clinical data can be shared
but while also keeping it in a Federated
access platform so that people don't get
access to it which is not really open
data but it needs to be not open but
also fair so how do you bridge that also
um so yeah I think dat light could
perfectly be a candidate for for the
kind of thing I'm building so yeah glad
to meet you all
[Applause]
uh uh hi I'm Marcus Katarina prestel I
work at the University Hospitals of
cologne and Frankfurt and um we are
building clinical research platforms for
the University medicine in Germany and
I'm pretty interested in use cases where
uh you could use data Le to um to manage
non-public data and to make uh
non-public
executions uh to be more
reproducible uh and also like
Federated um execution systems that are
built up on this we will will have a
talk about this but I'm very interested
uh to connect to people that are working
on um on this kind of problem
area thank you thank
[Applause]
you anybody
else
he hi uh I'm Yan buo from University of
Bon and tuban and I'm mostly here to
just celebrate how amazing get anex and
data are like for me
in because um I'm doing my PhD and um it
was a a giant eyeopener for me and and
and a relief to to find G anic finally
um because it uh it helps you with with
just
staying in control of your data uh and
you don't lose your files anymore
because some random USB stick breaks or
um yeah managing field data doing
backups and it's just purely amazing and
this is why I'm
here thank you for
sharing okay we still have time if you
want to speak then Raise Your Voice or
raise your hand and indeed it's amazing
to hear all these stories and how common
they are to pretty much how we felt when
we started to work on datet and also
kind of maybe what if if one thing we
get out from this man is like friend of
mine also in his 40s he say like okay we
shouldn't aim for big projects because
he's like oh I'll demolish half of the
house and I'll buid a New Foundation
we'll do baby steps right so even it's
like learning how to do basy G anex you
know management that's already goes Way
Forward right if we establish Bridge the
gaps between those islands right we have
tools with sometimes we don't want to
switch a tool but we want that tool to
work with another tool right so how do
we make all those connections work and
they don't have to be grandiose projects
but little things right how do we train
one clinician right even to download
data which is shared somewhere on some
website right those baby steps are
important I think and overall they build
up the story to something more grandio
at the end so that would be my take you
didn't ask for my feedback but here you
are okay yeah thank you um for me this
this is this is the perfect situation
that that that we had hoped for so it's
a all from from somewhat different
different backgrounds and and we had the
hope to to you know break out of the the
academic Bubble at least a little uh
with that meeting I hope this this is
going to work for us because the the
good ideas always come from the outside
and and the the thing that is amazing
for me after I don't know 10 years of
data light approximately is that every
time you end up with something that you
think is a is a nice solution that
should work for a lot of people then you
learn that it's not the case and you go
go from there so I I hope that that that
we can we can take a lot of stuff uh
ideas um out of out of this meeting and
and then do something good about this um
I would say um we we we talk a little
about uh some Logistics of the meeting
before we then get into the uh the
exciting Parts um and and the individual
talks and um maybe Adina you can come on
stage and and do
that yeah before we start before it gets
interesting let me quickly walk you
through the boring Logistics so we are
at the house un here in dorf again
thanks to this awesome location for
having us during the conference so
during the next two days we will be in
this space here downstairs which is the
Main Event Hall but during the hackathon
on Saturday if you're a part of that we
will not be down here we will be at the
on the third floor in meeting rooms for
a for B and three um if you need toilets
they are right down that hallway for the
days that we are downstairs for the
hackathon we will have also toilets I
think in the third floor um definitely
nearby and in case you need some privacy
for nursing for prayer uh whatever there
is in the on the third floor as well uh
what is called the lecturer's office
which you can use whenever you you kind
of need privacy don't abuse it uh like
don't have a private five people meeting
there there are couches go uh do that at
the coffee table be social invite people
around right but if you if you have
something that needs privacy do feel
free to go upstairs take the lecturer's
office and have yourself some
privacy um for the technical setup if
you need network uh then you can either
connect to Ed your Ro via your academic
Institution or the hhu network I have
details how to connect to that on the
next slide you can snap a picture you
can also find me I have the passwords on
me if you need it let me know if you are
a speaker then you will be able to
connect your uh Hardware Via USBC HDMI
or VGA I hope that works for everyone if
not let us know we'll figure out a
solution and if there's a coffee break
or a lunch break prior to your talk do
take the chance to test it so that we
can have smooth transitions in between
talks and we coordinate our little
meeting via chat rooms if you are not
part of those chat rooms yet uh scan the
QR code it will take you to the
distributes uh Matrix space where you
can join the various chat rooms that we
use for coordination it includes the
chat rooms for anonymous Q&A for the
talks uh where the remote participants
that are watching the live streams but
also those participants here on site
that may not want their voice to be
heard in the live streams can submit
their questions uh anonymously and then
obviously very
important it's meant for organizing the
pup or dinner place after the conference
uh for chatting about hackathon projects
and whatever else is on your
mind this is the important information
about the network so it's called aju the
login and the password you can see on
screen uh in case this does not work for
you I have all of the information on me
uh approach me at any point I'm happy to
share it again uh and in the um
in the
collaborative uh photo collection that
I'm going to be sharing in a few slides
you will also find the screenshot with
this
information uh so I hope everyone was
able to snap a
picture cool you can find the conference
schedule on our website and we recommend
giggity to to view it um we have
organized some coffee that you can find
upstairs uh for the conference Direct
and then further upstairs on the third
floor during the hackathon and when you
get hungry we don't have food around
apart from cookies but all of dof
provides much better food than we could
possibly provide so uh we encourage you
to form little groups and explore the
vibrant culinary land landscape that
this uh city has to offer you've already
seen it in the schedule we have
organized the conference quite Loosely
we are going to have little sessions
that are composed of up to four talks
and then they are followed by a panel of
those speakers contributing to the
sessions and there it is uh you know
whatever the speakers essentially prefer
whether they want to have a QA right
after the talk in the panel whether it
might be an open discussion and we have
moderators for these sessions to guide
through uh those parts of the conference
and we have some time in the conference
schedule on Friday afternoon to
accommodate and unconference so if
something Springs to your mind if you
get an idea if you have something that
you suddenly want to talk about do feel
free to post it in one of the chat rooms
that we have and we will find a spot for
you to present your idea to find
collaborators uh and so
forth we are going to be taking a group
photo today before the lunch break so
even though you might be hungry don't
head out right away if you want to be on
the group photo we're going to do that
just after the last session before the
lunch break and there is another QR code
that I invite you to scan uh this leads
you to an online
um photo sharing collection something
that yarik just created if you take
pictures obviously only if you have
obtained the peop that permission to
take pictures from this conference then
you can upload it there for everyone to
share so that we all go home with nice
memories and for the hackathon if uh you
have a project to pitch then uh feel
free to pitch ideas into Matrix or the
GitHub distributes
repositories um there are already a few
PRS open I think but uh this is
something that's supposed to uh you know
grow dynamically over the course of the
next two days and that's it so with this
the boring part is done I will hand over
to Stefan who will lead into the first
proper session of this conference